SRM - Analyze Deployment Impact (#3240)
harness/developer-hub: docs/service-reliability-management/change-impact-analysis/analyze-deployment-impact.md

---
title: Analyze Deployment Impact
description: Evaluate deployment impact on service health
sidebar_position: 40
---

Harness Continuous Deployment (CD) includes the **Analyze Deployment Impact** step to help you evaluate the impact of your deployment on service health. This step provides insights not only into the health of the monitored service you are updating but also the potential impact on dependent monitored services.

## Add Analyze Deployment Impact step

To add the **Analyze Deployment Impact** step to your pipeline, use one of the methods below.

### Add the Analyze Deployment Impact step while building a deployment stage

If you're building a deployment stage and are currently on the **Execution** tab:

> 1. Select the **+** icon, and then choose **Add Step**.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select **Add Step**.  
```

Reviewer: IMO I don't think like we have to walk them through using the + button.

    The Step Library page appears.

    <docimage path={require('./static/analyze-deployment-add-step.png')} />

2. In the **Service Reliability** section, select **Analyze Deployment Impact**.  
   
   The Analyze Deployment Impact settings page appears.

### Add Analyze Deployment Impact step to an existing deployment stage

If you already have a deployment stage:

1. Select the stage where you want to add the Analyze Deployment Impact step.
   
2. On the stage settings pane, select the **Execution** tab.

> 3. On the pipeline, hover over where you want the Analyze Deployment Impact step, select the **+** icon, and then choose **Add Step**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the stage, select **Add Step** where you want to add the Analyze Deployment Impact step.
```

   
   The Step Library page appears. You can add a step at various points in the pipeline, such as the beginning, end, in between existing steps, or below an existing step. Simply choose the location where you want to add the step and follow the prompts to add it.

4. In the **Service Reliability** section, select **Analyze Deployment Impact**.  
   
   The Analyze Deployment Impact settings page appears.

### Configure Analyze Deployment Impact step settings

> The Analyze Deployment Impact settings page provides options to configure the step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Analyze Deployment Impact step provides the following options.
```

   
3. In **Timeout**, enter a timeout value for the step. Harness uses this information to time out the analysis. Use the following syntax to define a timeout:

   - **w** for weeks. For example, to define one week, enter 1w.
   - **d** for days. For example, to define 7 days, enter 7d.
   - **h** for hours. For example, to define 24 hours, enter 24h.
   - **m** for minutes, For example, to define 100 minutes, enter 100m.
   - **s** for seconds. For example, to define 500 seconds, enter 500s.
   - **ms** for milliseconds. For example, to define 1000 milliseconds, enter 1000ms.

   You can also set timeouts at the pipeline level.
   
4. Choose a **Monitored Service** from the dropdown list to assess the impact of your deployment on the service's health.
   
   By default, the dropdown pre-selects the monitored service that corresponds to the service and environment you are currently deploying updates to. However, you can also select a different monitored service from the list if you want to analyze the impact of deployment on the health of that specific monitored service.

>    Example:
>    Suppose you are deploying updates to your "Payments" monitored service. In the **Monitored Service** dropdown list, it will be displayed as "Default (Payments)." This option will already be selected, indicating that Harness analyzes the impact of your deployment on the health of the "Payments" monitored service for the chosen duration in the Analyze Deployment step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For example, suppose you are deploying updates to your "Payments" monitored service. In the **Monitored Service** dropdown list, it will be displayed as **Default (Payments)**. This option will already be selected, indicating that Harness analyzes the impact of your deployment on the health of the payments monitored service for the chosen duration in the Analyze Deployment step.
```

Reviewer: we don't use quotes for identifying UI elements, dropdown values, etc. Usually, we use bold.

>    Now, let's say you want to assess how your deployment might affect the health of your "Checkout" monitored service. To do this, simply select "Checkout" from the dropdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Now, let's say you want to assess how your deployment might affect the health of your Checkout monitored service. To do this, simply select **Checkout** from the dropdown.
```

   
      - **Notifications**: You can configure notifications for monitored services. Your team receives alerts whenever the deployment pipeline that is associated with the monitored service is executed.  
      To configure notifications, select the **Configure notifications** link. This opens a new tab, taking you to the Notifications page of the monitored service that you selected. To learn about how to configure notifications, go to [Monitored service notifications](../notifications/monitoredservice-notifications.md).
  
   
      :::important
      When configuring the notification rule, ensure that, on the Conditions page, you select **Deployment Impact Analysis** from the **Conditions** dropdown list.
         
      :::

5. Select **Apply Changes** to save the Analyze Deployment Impact step settings.  
   The Analyze Deployment Impact step is added to the deployment.

 

> ## View Analyze Deployment Impact step result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## View Analyze Deployment Impact step results
```

When you run the pipeline, Harness also runs the Analyze Deployment Impact step and generates results.

:::info note
When the **Analyze Deployment Impact** step is running, the status is displayed as **Running**. You can select **Abort** to stop the step.
:::

To view the **Analyze Deployment Impact** step results for a pipeline:

> 1. In your Harness project, navigate to the **Deployments** module > **Pipelines**, and then select a pipeline to which you have added the **Analyze Deployment Impact** step.

Reviewer: you walk the user through our navigation a couple times. honestly, CV is advanced and they are likely to know our nav. Also, if our nav changes these steps will be out of date. I would remove them.

Author: Good observation. Removed the step.

   
3. Ensure that the** Console View** toggle switch is turned **ON**.
   
4. From the stages list, expand the stage in which you want to see the **Analyze Deployment Impact** results.

   The Details page on the right displays the following details:
   
   - Information such as the start and end times of the Analyze Deployment Impact step, its duration, and its status. The status can be **Running**, **Completed**, or **Aborted**. 
   
   - **View Monitored Service Details** link. Clicking the **View Monitored Service Details** link opens a new tab, navigates you to the monitored service selected in the Analyze Deployment Impact step, and displays the Impact Analysis Report.

<docimage path={require('./static/analyze-deployment-result.png')} />

## Impact Analysis Report

When you run a deployment pipeline that has the **Analyze Deployment Impact** step added, Harness analyzes the impact of deployment on the health of the monitored service (associated with the **Analyze Deployment Impact** step) and generates an Impact Analysis Report.

To view the Impact Analysis Report, follow these steps:

> 1. In your Harness project, navigate to the **Deployments** module > **Pipelines**, and then select a pipeline from which you want to access the Impact Analysis Report.

Reviewer: you walk the user through our navigation a couple times. honestly, CV is advanced and they are likely to know our nav. Also, if our nav changes these steps will be out of date. I would remove them.

Author: Good observation. Removed the step.

  :::info note
  You must have added **Analyze Deployment Impact** step.

>   :::

Reviewer: I would remove this

<docimage path={require('./static/analyze-deployment-change-impact-report.png')} />

You can also view the Impact Analysis Report directly for the monitored service.

To view the Impact Analysis Report:

1. In your Harness project, navigate to the **Service Reliability Management** module, and then select **Monitored Services**.  
   A list of all monitored services appears.

2. Select Choose the monitored service that corresponds to the one selected in the **Analyze Deployment Impact** step.

3. Select the **Change Impact** tab.
   The Reports section displays a list of deployment analyses, each displaying details such as the name, date and time of the analysis, its status, and the associated deployment pipeline.

4. Select the specific deployment analysis for which you wish to view the Impact Analysis Report.
   The Impact Analysis Card is displayed.

<docimage path={require('./static/analyze-deployment-change-impact-report-from-ms.png')} />

> ### Understand the Impact Analysis Report

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Understanding the Impact Analysis Report
```

> ### Understand the Impact Analysis Report

Reviewer: IMO this is the most important part of the doc and it's down here. I would put it at the top of the doc so the user knows why they should bother with this step.

I feel like this doc has a lot of procedures and navigation but is short on explaining the details of the report.

The Impact Analysis Report includes the following information:

>   - Report name: This is the name of the Analyze Deployment Impact step and serves as the report's title, for example, "Impact Analysis Report: AnalyzeDeploymentImpact_1".
>     
>   - Service and environment: Details about the specific service and environment where the deployment was executed.
>     
>   - User information: Information about the user who initiated the deployment and when it was executed.
>     
>   - Analysis duration: The duration for which the analysis was carried out.
>     
>   - Start and end times: The date and time when the analysis started and when it concluded.
>     
>   - Analysis status: The status of the analysis, which can be one of the following: **Running**, **Completed**, or **Aborted**.
>     
>   - Service health and SLO performance: Service health score and SLO performance trend chart for the duration of the analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Report name:** This is the name of the Analyze Deployment Impact step and serves as the report's title, for example, "Impact Analysis Report: AnalyzeDeploymentImpact_1".
    
  - **Service and environment:** Details about the specific service and environment where the deployment was executed.
    
  - **User information:** Information about the user who initiated the deployment and when it was executed.
    
  - **Analysis duration:** The duration for which the analysis was carried out.
    
  - **Start and end times:** The date and time when the analysis started and when it concluded.
    
  - **Analysis status:** The status of the analysis, which can be one of the following: **Running**, **Completed**, or **Aborted**.
    
  - **Service health and SLO performance:** Service health score and SLO performance trend chart for the duration of the analysis.
```
